Hi, everybody.
This week, we made it
official-I'm going to Cuba.
When Michelle and I go
to Havana next month,
it will be the first
visit of a
U.S. president to Cuba
in nearly 90 years.
And it builds on the
decision I made more than a
year ago to begin a new
chapter in our relationship
with the people of Cuba.
You see, I believe that the
best way to advance American
interests and values, and
the best way to help the
Cuban people
improve their lives,
is through engagement-by
normalizing relations
between our governments and
increasing the contacts
between our peoples.
I've always said that
change won't come
to Cuba overnight.
But as Cuba opens up, it
will mean more opportunity
and resources for
ordinary Cubans.
And we're starting
to see some progress.
Today, the American flag
flies over our embassy in
Havana, and our diplomats
are interacting more broadly
with the Cuban people.
More Americans are visiting
Cuba than at any time in the
last 50 years-Cuban-American
families; American students,
teachers, humanitarian
volunteers,
faith communities-all
forging new ties and
friendships that are
bringing our countries closer.
And when direct flights
and ferries resume,
even more of our citizens
will have the chance to
travel and work together
and know each other.
American companies are
starting to do business in
Cuba, helping to nurture
private enterprise and
giving Cuban entrepreneurs
new opportunities.
With new Wi-Fi hotspots,
more Cubans are starting to
go online and get
information
from the outside world.
In both our countries,
there's overwhelming support
for this new relationship.
And in Cuba today, for
the first time in a half
century, there is hope
for a different future,
especially among Cuba's
young people who have such
extraordinary talent and
potential just waiting
to be unleashed.
My visit will be an
opportunity to
keep moving forward.
I'll meet with President
Castro to discuss how we can
continue normalizing
relations,
including making it easier
to trade and easier for
Cubans to access the
Internet and start their
own businesses.
As I did when I met
President Castro last year,
I'll speak candidly about
our serious differences with
the Cuban government,
including on democracy
and human rights.
I'll reaffirm that the
United States will continue
to stand up for universal
values like freedom of
speech and assembly
and religion.
I'll meet with members
of Cuba's civil
society-courageous men and
women who give voice to the
aspirations of
the Cuban people.
I'll meet with Cuban
entrepreneurs to learn how
we can help them
start new ventures.
And I'll speak directly to
the Cuban people about the
values we share and how I
believe we can be partners
as they work for the
future they want.
We're still in the early
days of our new relationship
with the Cuban people.
This transformation
will take time.
But I'm focused
on the future,
and I'm confident that my
visit will advance the goals
that guide us-promoting
American interests and
values and a better future
for the Cuban people,
a future of more freedom
and more opportunity.
Thanks everybody.
And to the people of
Cuba-nos vemos en La Habana.